So now we're gonna get into some of
the more fun complex pieces of go that
are particularly interesting.
The first one of being a struct,
which we'll be using a lot in some
of our code examples down the road.
So we're talking about a struct.
A struct is going to define the attributes
that live on a particular type that we
define ourselves.
So so far, we've been working with
types that are like strings, booleans,
integers but you'll notice when
we're talking about a struct type,
we get to name it whatever
we want it to be.
And then define the attributes
that make it what it is.
So in this example case, we're calling
the type struct a name of user.
And the user struct has four
attributes on it right now.
It has an ID, which is an integer,
a first name, last name, and
an email all of which are strings.
Similarly to passing in arguments and
kind of consolidating code,
Go allows us to list all attributes that
have the same type on the same line and
add that type to the end.
So we've got now two lines with the ID and
then all the strings
are on the second line.
And then to actually instantiate
an instance of that struct type,
we would use the type name at
the beginning of the variable definition.
And then the opening curly braces to
actually assign values to each of
those fields.
So we're setting the variable name you
to a value of a struct user type with
values for the ID of one first
name Marilyn Monroe, etc.
Cool, let's hop over to structs.go and
play around a little bit.
So now we are moving on into section six,
And structs.go.
One thing you'll notice that's slightly
different from the slide is that
the attributes in the user
struct here are all capitalized.
And something that is gonna stay
consistent throughout Go at the moment is
any attribute that is capitalized will
be accessible outside of this package.
So even if it's on a struct,
if you import this capital U user struct
into another file under the package.
The only attributes that will
be visible are capital letters.
So I'm gonna switch everything to be
capital for the rest of the exercise.
So general theme is kinda capital letter
means exportable and visible elsewhere.
Cool.
If I comment out some of this code,
let's print this to the console and
see what it looks like.
We still need the struct definition,
my apologies.
So so far in this file, we've defined our
struct using the consolidated syntax for
all of our string types
around the second line.
And then in main, all I'm doing is
instantiating an instance of our struct,
which is a user and
then printing that to the console.
So if we call go run in section six.
Let me back out of our utils file here.
Instead of changing into it,
I am trying to run it.
So I'm gonna modify that to be, go run.
You'll see that we have something that
looks very similar to an object that
prints out all of the values of
our struct attributes, ID of one,
Marilyn Monroe, etc.
So similar to accessing attributes on an
object in JavaScript, if I just wanted to
access let's say that user's first name or
last name, we can use .notation.
So I'm gonna print out u, which represent
our user and then capital F, FirstName.
Save this and run it here.
You'll see the first thing I see is
that string printed out as Marilyn.
And my second output here is that
entire user as a struct value.